{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8226\'95;}{\levelnumbers;}\f0\fs24\b0\i0\fi-853\li1707\lin1707}{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ri-706\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>How to Think About Outlining<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How much should I outline? How detailed should my outline be? }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Lisa Gardner, in }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Plotting the Novel: Otherwise Known as The Real Reason Writers are Neurotic}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , writes:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li734\ri-980\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And finally, you may complete this process only to discover that now that you have outlined the story, you have no interest in writing it. That means outlining is not for you. You are probably an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93out-of-the-mist\u8221\'94 writer, meaning that the story must be unfolding fresh for you to be interested in telling it. That\u8217\'92s okay as well. Some of the best writers out there are out-of-the-mist writers. The trick is to discover which method of writing works best for you. }
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91two styles of writer\u8217\'92 distinction is known in writing circles as \u8216\'91Plotters vs. Pantsers\u8217\'92. Plotters plan and outline; Pantsers write \u8216\'91by the seat of their pants\u8217\'92, by sitting down and writing. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s different between these two positions? Several\~things: }
\par\pard\plain \li540\fi-270\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Plotter must still write her draft. In fact, that\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s one downside to being a plotter: you can confuse writing the outline with writing the story, even tell yourself that the story\u8217\'92s done.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext	\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Pantser is more likely to write herself into a corner, to not know what comes next.}
\par\plain \ilvl0{\listtext	\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Pantser finishes her first draft. It contains all that knowledge needed to rewrite a second draft, but it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s diffused, spread throughout the prose. She has to edit much more extensively than if she worked from a good outline.}
\par\pard\plain \li540\fi-270\sa180\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Here\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s the killer: the Pantser had to face a blank page every day in order to get through that draft. \~She often worked without a net, not knowing where her story was going. The plotter did too-\~}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 while she was writing her outline}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . But there is a big difference in writing\~a few pages of outline and in writing a 200-page draft. The outline is more tractable. That\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s what makes Pantsing a plotting issue.}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The gap between these two perspectives,  and the answer to the original questions, is to outline as little as possible to get to an effective first draft. The trick is to develop an effective workflow, one that gets you to the writing as quickly and efficiently as possible.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \tab }
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}