{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Other resources:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Antisocial Behavior (SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY) iResearchNet }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Antisocial personality disorder - Symptoms and causes - Mayo Clinic }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Antisocial Personality Disorder (Sociopathy): Causes and Symptoms (psycom.net) }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sociopathy}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 [tba]}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Psychopathy}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Conflict Theory in Criminal Justice (legalbeagle.com) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Common conflicts in Criminal Justice Organizations - Common Law Essays, Criminal justice, Criminal Law Essays, Justice (lawaspect.com) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Crime and Conflict Theory \endash  Attack the System }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Strengths and Weaknesses of Conflict Theory (synonym.com) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sociological/Criminological Theorising \endash  Deviance and Social Control - Law Essays (lawaspect.com) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Crime and conflict - GSDRC }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Structural Sources of Conflict (eolss.net) }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The 8 causes of conflict (and what to do about them) | by Duane Rohrbacher | Medium }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Relevance of Clausewitz's Theory of War to Contemporary Conflict Resolution (jstor.org) }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Take a look at this last one (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'918 causes\u8217\'92) against the categories I have. For example, \u8216\'91Policy\u8217\'92 may automatically point to structural issues.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Clausewitz describes war as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93\u8230\'85a clash between major in\'02terests, which is resolved by bloodshed \endash  that is the only way in which it differs from other conflicts.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The issue of information warfare}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When it comes to an extremely important point, the morality of war, Clause\'02witz says: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the moral factor is the most fluid element of all, and therefore spreads most easily to affect everything else.\u8221\'94  9 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Warfare is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Trinitarian.\u8221\'94 Simply put, it is about people, armed forces, and government. 12 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 These dynamics are also part of a new strategic landscape of conflict. Traditionally, violent conflict has been associated with inter-state wars or civil wars, but there is increasing agreement among conflict analysts that most current violent conflicts do not fit these \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91traditional\u8217\'92 categories. For instance, most violent deaths occur in non-traditional conflict settings. The new landscape of conflict frequently involves a mix of ingredients such as local and cross-border organized crime, socio-economic exclusion, rapid urbanization, political change after years of stasis, or long-standing disputes over land or identity. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Something for Everyone in the Military-Industrial Complex | War Is Boring }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is another rabbit hole. But a very interesting one. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91It turns out that all the advising and assisting, all the training and coaching, has only made matters worse. As for those overstretched forces, relentless deployments are evidently breaking them down as reports indicate that rates of mental distress and suicide are again on the rise among them.\u8217\'92 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}