{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 BaskOldFace;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 BaskOldFace;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 BaskOldFace;}{\f7\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::2>Using StoryBuilder to Plot Your Story<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 Storytelling with Purpose}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A story is written as a sequence of scenes (in StoryBuilder, Scene story elements.) A scene is a}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 n event, and the events are causally related: one event causes, and leads to, the next. For example:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ql\ltrch\loch \f3\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 The Queen is told by her mirror that Show White is now the fairest in the land, }
\par\plain {\f5\fs24\b1\i0 so}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  she orders her huntsman to murder Show White and bring her the child\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s heart,                     }
\par\plain {\f5\fs24\b1\i0 but}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Show White pleads for her life, }
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0             }{\f5\fs24\b1\i0 so}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  The huntsman spares Show White, abandoning her in the woods,}
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0             }{\f5\fs24\b1\i0 and}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  he tricks the Queen by bringing her the heart of a wild boa}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 r.}
\par\plain \f4\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 Coming up with these scenes is an act of imagination- it\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f5\fs24\b1\i0 storytelling}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0 , play acting, in which you take on the part of one character and then the other.}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 In the previous topic }{\f6\fs24\b0\i1 Plotting In Scenes}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0 , we introduced the idea that every scene must advance the story\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s plot: it must move toward the resolution of the story problem it\u8217\'92s a piece of.  This is another way of saying that every scene must have a }{\f5\fs24\b1\i0 purpose}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0 : show the Ordinary World, introduce the problem, resolve the conflict. A scene can and usually does have more than one purpose, but  must}{\f6\fs24\b0\i1  always}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  contribute toward solving the Problem is a part of; otherwise, the story will meander aimlessly. A plotted story must aim toward its outcome as an arrow flies towards its target. Think of each story problem as having structure, of consisting of plot points or story beats. Each plot point is a potential scene, and the plot point\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s function is that scene\u8217\'92s purpose.}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f4\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 Scene Count (Story Length)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A frequent concern when plotting at the scene level is story length, which can be rephrased as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91How many scenes do I need?\u8217\'92 As with many writing questions, this one has more than one answer. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You can estimate your scene count by dividing your target story (novel, short story, script) word length (or playing time) divided by the average scene word count (or playing time.) If you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92re writing a novel and shooting for 100,000-120,000 words, and your scenes average 2,000 words, you\u8217\'92ll need 50-60 scenes. In terms of three-act structure, a quarter of them might go to Act I, a  half to Act II, and the remaining quarter to Act III.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 Finding Scenes}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How do you go about finding those 50-60  (or however many you need) scenes?  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t think in terms of scene count. Think of plotting as finding the scenes you need to resolve your story\u8217\'92s problems.  If you\u8217\'92ve been following this dialog, you know that you  have a top-level problem, the Story Problem, defined on the Story Overview form, and you\u8217\'92ve summarized the problem in its Premise:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:307]=C:/dev/src/User Manual/Screenshots/Plotting with StoryBuilder - Premise.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  When that problem is resolved, the story is finished. This is the top level design of your story.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If you were to use Master Plots to create of Scene story elements for the plot points in this problem with the Three Act Structure template, it might look like this:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:338]=C:/dev/src/User Manual/Screenshots/Plotting with StoryBuilder - Story Problem MasterPlots Scene list.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is what plotting the main Story Problem might look like if it were, say, a short story. But it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s longer story (a Novella, in this case), and there aren\u8217\'92t enough scenes to carry the longer work. So instead of thinking of each part as  a scene, consider it just as a story beat or plot point. Ignoring the other plot points, consider First Obstacle and Subsequent Obstacles not as Scenes but as Problems= subproblems, Complications, in this case):}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:305;h:133]=C:/dev/src/User Manual/Screenshots/Plotting with StoryBuilder - Complication SubProblems.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In real life one strategy to solve a problem is to decompose it into smaller problems. That same approach works when plotting, the twist being that you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ll be creating rather than solving subproblems. Don\u8217\'92t plot in Scenes;  plot in Problems. These problems can be further decomposed into scenes:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:273;h:356]=C:/dev/src/User Manual/Screenshots/Plotting with StoryBuilder - SubProblems Epanded into Scenes.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This process works not only with complications (subplots with bad outcomes which are designed to increase the conflict), but with other subplots. }{\f7\fs24\b0\i1 In The Old Man and the Sea,}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Manolin, the boy Santiago mentored and who loves him, has a character arc based on his relationship with the old man:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:452]=C:/dev/src/User Manual/Screenshots/StoryBuilder Manolin Problem.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is an inner problem for Manolin, a coming of age arc, and it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s plotted in just six scenes:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:277;h:224]=C:/dev/src/User Manual/Screenshots/Plotting with StoryBuilder - Manolin Subplot.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Hemingway uses this problem as a frame around Santiago\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s battle, splitting the scenes and using the first three to introduce Santiago before his battle, and the last three to show Manolin vowing to fish with the old man again. Plot your scenes for your Problems, but you don\u8217\'92t have to arrange them in that order in your narrative. That\u8217\'92s what Story Narrator View is for.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 Eliminating Scenes }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A quite different answer to the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91How many scenes?\u8217\'92 question is \u8216\'91As few as possible\u8217\'92, following Robert Heinlein\u8217\'92s adage: \u8220\'93The most important lesson in the writing trade is that any manuscript is improved if you cut away the fat.\u8221\'94 Or, if you prefer, William Faulkner\u8217\'92s: \u8220\'93In writing, you must kill your darlings.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The urge will be to create a scene for every plot point.  But you have a wonderful tool at your disposal, your reader\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s imagination. If you can remove a scene and the reader can follow your story line, that thing can and should be cut.}}