{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1> Relationships Tab<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs28\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:516]=$PROJECT://8696A899-34F3-48AA-A7B6-02B84136AC39.png\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i1
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Relationship}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  tab on the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Character}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  form describes significant character-to-character relationships.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Relationships are made when two people with a different set of values and often varying personalities come together. Relationships in fiction (and in life)  can be a source of conflict.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Most stories involve interactions between characters: adversarial, social, familial, romantic. A character in a relationship is distinct from a character as an individual; the relationship is a dynamic. Characters in a relationship behave differently when they\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92re together- a sort of role.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 This tab is only one half  of the relationship; go to the Relation character  to define  the other half. Be aware that the two sides of a relationship seldom have the same dynamic.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Create a new Relationship}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Click on this button to add a new relationship:}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri-734\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:548;h:320]=$PROJECT://188B240E-8625-4D2E-94E2-F05079AFF4EB.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Relation Type}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri-590\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Select the type of relationship from the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91is a\u8217\'92 ComboBox. If you can\u8217\'92t find the one you want, add a new one.}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Relation}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Select the character the relationship is with from the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91to\u8217\'92 list of characters.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Make a relationship on the other character}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri-908\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Check this box to define the inverse relationship. To complete that relationship, however, you must navigate to the other character.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Once you\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92ve added a relationship, you can update its defining details:}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:415]=$PROJECT://18E0E9B0-E553-41DE-9B4D-1C879951CE6C.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Trait}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Select from list of traits, or add your own.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Contrasting qualities tend to pull or push characters apart.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Attitude}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 If the trait is the external behavior defining the relationship, attitude is the internal counterpart, often a feeling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 If a Character has a character arc of growth centered on a relationship, it\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s often about an evolution of attitude.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Notes}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Use this field to record your ideas and observations on the relationship.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Remove Relatio}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 n button}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 If you click on the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91X\u8217\'92 button on a relationship, you\u8217\'92ll be asked to verify that you wish to remove that relationship.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Show and Hide}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  a relationship}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 If you feel that the relationship takes too much space up you can hide the extra info (Traits, Attitude and notes) by click the little arrow in top right of the relationship. You can click the arrow to show this info again.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f4\fs22\b0\i0}