{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq1 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Bold;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\f0\fs0\cf0\ftnbj\ftnnar\aftnnar
\sectd\sftnnar\saftnnar\titlepg\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Let's use the 'Lacas walks out of the courtroom, a free man' scene as our narrative hook.  We'll use the Three Act Play as it was intended,  a scaffolding, and replace the plot point for 'Narrative Hook' with our scene.  To do so, we'll move our scene where it belongs.   First we double-click on the 'Lacas walks out of the courtroom' label on the list of plot points on the left hand side of the screen.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 1}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 A}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Move Pending}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  label appears in the bottom left hand corner of the screen.  This indicates that the label we double clicked has been marked to be moved.  We then click once on the 'Narrative hook' plot point.  Our scene is moved after it.  If you're moving in a downward direction, the plot point is moved after (below) the target, as in this case.  If you're moving upwards in the list, the plot point will be moved above (before) the target.  See "Moving plot points" in the "Plotting" chapter  for more information.}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 2}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 After we've moved our scene to where we want it, we can get rid of the placeholder by clicking on the 'Narrative hook' plot point once more and then clicking the }{\f5\fs24\b1\i0 Delete }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 button.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 We also have an idea of what our climax scene is\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2   the showdown we visualized when we were thinking about our problem's resolution.  Clicking on the 'Climax' plot point, change the description to 'Tony diverts Lacas with the phone and wounds him.'   The idea is that Tony calls Lacas' phone, which interrupts him.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Plotting is usually the last thing to worry about, for several reasons.  The characters should be well defined, so that their actions are consistent with their natures.  The story problems should also be clearly understood, especially the resolutions.  Every problem is a story in miniature; plotting a story is largely a matter of arranging events from one or more problems into a satisfactory sequence.  But writing is a process of accumulation, and the ideas which you collect to create your story concept can come to you at any time.  If you visualize a plot point, don't hesitate to record it. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0}