{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Social Tab<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:454]=$PROJECT://49A3F36B-4ED0-42C1-810E-65880FEDBAC3.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 These elements are the major factors which affect this character's behavior and which come from the influence of others or the community.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The four socializing factors on this tab are important, but there is another, equally important source of social influence: specific relationships with other people.  Parents are notable examples.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Social factors may act as a source of story conflict, either externally with another character or characters, or internally within the character, war with each other in character, when contradicted by events or learning. , as a source of story conflict.  For example, a young white boy might have been raised to dislike or distrust blacks,  but the positive influence of a particular person of color  could conflict with that background.  This type of conflict is common in 'Man against Society' stories.}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Fields}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 :}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Economic Status}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Use this field to hold information about the economic/financial status of the character.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 In considering this trait, consider wealth as a form of freedom; the poor are often shorn of choices which the wealthy enjoy.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 However, wealth can also serve as an insulator, which isolates a character from real life. This is true more of inherited than earned money, so also consider how any wealth was acquired.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Changes in economic status can be powerful sources of conflict.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Education}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Use this field to hold information about the character's education.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Education is a primary means of social mobility, or rising above poverty or humble beginnings.  But education is also sometimes associated with class separation, snobbish behavior, and lack of worldliness.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 In either roll, positive or negative, education can place a character in conflict with his previous (before school) environment.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Ethnic and Cultural}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Use this field to hold information  about the ethnic and cultural background of the character.  These factors can provide great color and variety to stories.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Be sure that you know the ethnic group or culture you're writing about, either from experience or from careful research\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  or both.  }
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0  If you don\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92t know the group you\u8217\'92re writing about, get to know multiple members of that group. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Be wary of stereotyping.  In fact, interesting characters often come from providing character traits which are at deliberate odds to stereotypes.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 As with other social factors, changes in the ethnic and cultural environment can provide a source of story conflicts.  This happens in situations in which a person moves from one social group or strata to another,  such as from employment, travel, or marriage.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Religion}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Use this field on the Social Background tab of the Character form to hold information about the religious background and status of the character.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Religion is not widely used in fictional character development except in religious market genres.  Characters frequently express religious beliefs, but don't show or act upon them except in unusual circumstances.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 But religion can provide a foundation for characters in crisis, a source of comfort and strength when things are at their darkest. Consider I}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 t\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s a Wonderful Life}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . A religious background can provide the basis for character choices at the turning point.  This is especially true for stories in which the protagonist is on the brink of a fall into immoral or unethical behavior. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0}