{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Bold;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq1 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\f0\fs0\cf0\ftnbj\ftnnar\aftnnar
\sectd\sftnnar\saftnnar\titlepg\pgnrestart\pgnstarts1
\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The characters, so far, have been defined by their roles; the only specific traits we've given them (Leonard and Tony) have been shaped by the story's needs.  It's time to put some flesh on these skeletons.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Let's start with Charlie Lacas.  We know a few things about him.  He's young, he deals drugs, and he uses technology that the detectives don't have.  That absence of technology suggests that the story doesn't take place in a big city.  But perhaps Charlie is a city boy who's figured out that he can use his supplier contacts in New York to deal drugs in a small city, say in Pennsylvania somewhere.   It's safer, the competition is less, and he has an edge over the small-town cops.   This implies that he's fairly bright, which makes him a more worthy adversary for our detectives.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Going to the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Character }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 form, we can start creating some of this:}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 1}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Details of appearance were created also.}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 We then turn to psychological considerations:}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 2}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 Personality Type}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0   is based on the theory of enneagrams (see "Personality Type" under "Psychology Tab" in the "Characters" chapter  of this manual for more about enneagrams.)   A stereotype such as this can suggest how the character might react in certain situations.  }
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Let's also define some social factors:}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 3}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The goal of all of this is to create a fully rounded human being, one who is believable and who you can visualize talking and acting in your story. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The other major consideration is that the character should support the role you've given him.  Had the initial story idea been for a character, you might have fleshed the character out before you started looking for story problems, and then looked for a role to fit the character, but in this case the role came first and the character should fit the part.}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 We'll look at one last tab, the Back story tab:}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f2\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b0\i0 4}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 There's always a question of how much detail to provide, for characters, problems, settings, etc.  The answer will vary from story to story.  For example, this is an action-oriented story, so the characterizations aren't quite as important.  But although not everything you know about the character has to be in the story, everything you know will affect the story as you write it.  }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 You can look at the}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  DANGER.STB}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  outline on the StoryBuilder default directory to see the rest of the character tabs, and to see the developments of the other two characters.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0}