{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::2>Legal Matters<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs26\b1\i0
<<<<<<< HEAD
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by the StoryBuilder Organization under a Creative Commons Attribution\endash Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version. StoryBuilder Organization, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.}
=======
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Seven Valleys Software under a Creative Commons Attribution\endash Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version. Seven Valleys Software, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.}
>>>>>>> Save refactoring of user manual in conjunction with Conflict Builder changes
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 ***}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
<<<<<<< HEAD
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Copyright \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u169\'A9 2022, 2023}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 - by -}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 StoryBuilder Organization}
=======
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Copyright \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u169\'A9 2021, 2022}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 - by -}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Seven Valleys Software}
>>>>>>> Save refactoring of user manual in conjunction with Conflict Builder changes
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0}