{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Bold;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b0\i0 Finding the Meaning}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs28\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Readers expect the protagonist's problems to be resolved in some fashion, and not just left hanging.  But the solutions, especially to the inner problems which show character development, must have significance and meaning.  This meaning is the story's theme.  The}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Theme}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  field on the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Resolution}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  tab of the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Problem Definition}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  form holds a synopsis of this meaning.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 The theme or moral is derived from the premise.  To find the theme, consider the elements of the premise as symbols.  The above premise might have the theme  'Love overcomes depression.'  If you change the outcome and premise, the theme will also necessarily change.  If the protagonist gives up and is overcome by depression, the theme might be 'Grief overcomes even love' or 'Grief ends in tragedy.'}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 The failure to invest a story with this meaning can be as unsatisfactory as an unresolved story problem, because fiction, unlike real life, has to make sense.  While it's sometimes good to challenge reader's perceptions with thought-provoking ideas, the fit of the story to its intended market is largely determined by the theme.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Theme can sometimes be difficult to define.  The problem subject (contained in the}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Subject}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  field on the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Problem}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  tab of the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Problem Definition}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  form) is a good starting place.  It's also useful to consider certain traits of your protagonist and antagonist as symbols which the premise describes.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0   Motivation}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 ,}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Values}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 ,}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Focus}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 , and }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Virtues and Vices}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  are the controls which are most useful in this regard.}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b0\i0}