{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SitkaText;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Bold;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Italic;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 BookAntiqua;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 BookAntiqua-Bold;}{\f7\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 So far we\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92ve completed the first two steps in the story workflow, Story Idea and Concept, and added a few characters. We mentioned that}{\f2\fs24\b1\i0  Concept}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  is an intermediate step between }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Story Idea}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Premise}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 , so it\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s no surprise that we\u8217\'92ll talk about your story\u8217\'92s Premise next. Here\u8217\'92s our concept again:}
\par\pard\plain \li548\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li706\fi14\ri892\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 What if a police detective uses a criminal's phone to gain time to effect a rescue, by calling the dealer at the critical moment?}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f4\fs26\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ri-692\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Your Premise is the answer to the question your concept poses. It\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s a summary of your }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 story told in a sentence or two.  Although there are may ways to write it, here\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s a useful template:}
\par\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 A }{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 character }{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 in a situation}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0  [genre, setting]}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 \~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 wants something}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 , which brings him into\~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 conflict}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 \~with a second character [}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 opposition}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 ]. After a\~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 series of conflicts}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 , which are handicapped by a\~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 subplot}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 , and after a\~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 plot twist}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 , the\~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 final battle}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 \~erupts, and character one finally\~}{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 resolves}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 \~the conflict. }
\par\plain \f5\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 In StoryCAD, one story element type, }{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 Problem}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 ,  contains most of the elements of the Premise, and, in fact, the Problem form\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 Resolution}{\f5\fs24\b0\i0  tab contains a }{\f6\fs24\b1\i0 Premise }{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 sub-element. Your story can (and usually will) contain more than one Problem, and every Problem}{\f7\fs24\b0\i0  has its own Premise. }{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 StoryCAD is centered around Problems; they\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92re the heart of plotted fiction.}
\par\plain \f5\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Our immediate focus is to identify a specific protagonist with a specific problem. We have a protagonist, Leonard, and we can take a stab at a Problem. Right click on the empty Problems folder and click the \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Add Problem\u8217\'92 button (the question mark.) }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Since this is a 'cops and robbers' story, and these are often action-oriented.  Let's stick to that approach; Leonard's basic problem is to catch Charlie.  This defines the Problem Type as Conflict  and the Conflict Type as Person vs. Person, so we can select these values from their drop-down lists. We said that most drop-down lists allow  you to enter new values. That\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s not true for Problem Type and Conflict Type: there are only so many of those.}
\par\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 The basic idea for this story was a situation or subject, so we know that, too (Crime), and we can enter it as Subject. If our original idea had been a character or setting, nailing down the problem subject would be a priority, and the list of Subject values might suggest something we don\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t already know. Or we might have started with a Goal for the Protagonist and found a Subject which interfered with that Goal (more on that in a bit.)}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Let\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s take a look at Story Question. If you\u8217\'92re not sure what this is or why it\u8217\'92s on the problem tab, use the Help (\u8216\'91?\u8217\'92) button on the menu bar and locate the property in the user manual. Here\u8217\'92s what it has to say about Story Question:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\ri-749\sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs20\b0\i0 The primary reason your reader reads your story is to find out how it comes out, to find the answer to a question the story poses. It\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s useful to clarify exactly what that question is. The story question can be framed as a yes or no question in terms of the protagonist\u8217\'92s goal: \u8216\'91Will Scarlett manage to save her plantation?\u8217\'92, or \u8216\'91How will Macbeth prove that his father was murdered?\u8217\'92}
\par\plain {\f4\fs20\b0\i0 Consider whether the reader should know the story\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s outcome prior to the climax scene. In many character-oriented stories the answer should be yes, and the story\u8217\'92s dramatic arc deals with how things happen rather than what will happen. If the answer should be no, the story question is the essential suspense of the story, and your plot must serve to keep the outcome in doubt.}
\par\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Focusing on our original idea again, let's say that Charlie is highly mobile, conducting his deals all over town, and that he uses a combination of pagers (yes, I know, old tech) and cellular phones to arrange the deals. Our suspenseful question might be \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91Will Leonard and Tony overcome the cellular phone advantage\u8217\'92 and find out where Charlie Lacas\u8217\'92 next drug deal will be held, so that they can catch him?\u8217\'92:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:657;h:472]=$PROJECT://102552F7-F1FE-45C3-B194-81036BD3F481.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 As is often the case, one question leads to another. We\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92re also faced with the question of }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 how}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  the detectives overcome Charlie\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s tech. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 We can treat this this issue of overcoming the advantage of the cellular phones as a  complication, by rewording the problem  not as a yes or no (suspense) question but as a \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91how do they overcome?\u8217\'92  Story Question. }{\f5\fs24\b0\i0 Your story can (and usually will) contain more than one Problem, and every Problem}{\f7\fs24\b0\i0  has its own Premise. Let\loch\af7\hich\af7\dbch\af7\uc1\u8217\'92s add our \u8216\'91how to\u8217\'92 question as a second problem:}
\par\plain \f7\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f7\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:575;h:371]=$PROJECT://E20E2ABF-FE00-4077-BDDB-08EC59D31DEE.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f7\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f7\fs24\b0\i0 Neither of these problems are fleshed out, but we\loch\af7\hich\af7\dbch\af7\uc1\u8217\'92ll work on that in a minute.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f5\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f5\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0}