{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SitkaText;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Structure Tab}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Structure is the order and manner in which you tell your story. Structure has two meanings. This tab is concerned with the constraints you put on the story (hopefully early in your story development.) The second meaning is concerned with the order and arrangement of story elements; you\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92ll create this as you develop your outline. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:546]=$PROJECT://AF0C7E4C-4079-478D-8C47-0FEC62024A5E.png\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2866\fi-2852\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Fields}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 :}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2866\fi-2866\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li2866\fi-2852\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Type\tab \tab \tab      \tab \tab \tab The dramatic form in which you plan to tell your story. Each type roughly determines length, and has its own set of conventions and restrictions.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Genre\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Each genre is a category characterized by its own style, form, and content, but more importantly, reader expectations.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Viewpoint\tab \tab \tab \tab The person(s) and perspective from which the story is told. We recommend paying particular attention to viewpoint before  \tab \tab }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Viewpoint Character\tab For First Person and Limited Third Person viewpoints, the specific character.  \tab \tab }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Literary device\tab \tab \tab Literary devices are structural devices or gimmicks you can use to add meaning or tone. The proper literary device(s) can amplify your story\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s message, but use caution.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \tab }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Voice\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab The speech and thought patterns of the character(s) in the story. Beyond these forms of narration, a character\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s voice is defined in his dialog.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Tense\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab T}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 ense indicates when events or actions occurred in time\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 in the past, present, or future. Your verb choices can also indicate aspect (completeness or effect).}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Style\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Style is the way you use language, based on word choice, tone, syntax, and use of literary devices. Particular style are chosen depending on the desired effect.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Tone\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Tone indicates the mood or impression you wish the reader to feel.}}