{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SitkaText;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Dramatic Situations<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:456;h:210]=$PROJECT://B669EE55-F3E9-4E31-B211-1F81ABD519F9.png\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Georges Polti, in his 1895 book }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 , proposed that there are only a limited number of dramatic situations, based on fundamental human conflicts.   He defined each of his situations in terms of dramatic elements and examples.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 In 2017 Mike Figgis, whose film credits include }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Internal Affairs}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Leaving Los Vegas}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 , revised and republished }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 , adapting the dated examples from long-forgotten writers Polti used to the more modern era, and borrowing examples from cinema. This is the source we use. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Dramatic Situations}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  form is invoked from the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Plotting Aids}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  sub-menu of the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Tools}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  menu.  It contains the thirty-six dramatic situations and the dramatic elements of each.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The central story problem will frequently be based upon one of these situations, but the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Dramatic Situations}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  tool is intended more for use with the plot outline and with scenes.  Every scene can be thought of as a 'little story' with its own conflict; and each scene will therefore generally involve one or more of these dramatic situations.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 This tool works with the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Scene}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  tab on the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Plot}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  form to help define the conflict for a scene.  If you select }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Copy}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  from the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Dramatic Situations}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  form, the elements of the situation you have selected will be copied into the elements on the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Scene}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  tab of the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Plot}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  form for the currently selected plot point.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0}