{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI-Bold;}}{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0 ;\red255\green255\blue255 ;\red128\green128\blue128 ;}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0\pard\plain\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\ltrch\loch{\f1\fs26\b1\i0
<$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::2>Important Notice to StoryCAD Users<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain\sa180\sb180\ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As the creators of StoryCAD, we're committed to offering a robust tool that aids fiction writers in planning and outlining their novels with ease. However, it's essential to understand the specific applications and limitations of StoryCAD to minimize data loss or inconvenience.}
\par\plain\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Understanding StoryCAD's Scope:**}
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  While StoryCAD supports RTF (rich field text) for detailed note-taking and outlining, it can\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\rquote t replace a full-featured word processor. Our application focuses on the structure and planning phase of your writing. It is *not* meant to serve as your primary tool for manuscript writing. It\rquote
s missing standard in word processor features like font selection, rich section, paragraph and word styles, etc., and, more importantly, doesn\rquote t support editing multiple documents simultaneously or breaking a large document into smaller sections. }
\par\plain\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Recommended Word Processing Integration:**}
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For drafting and preserving your novel's manuscript, we recommend using established word processing software. StoryCAD seamlessly integrates with Scrivener, a comprehensive tool for writers that supports extensive manuscript management and editing features. Our interface complements Scrivener, allowing split-screen editing where you view the outline while writing your draft. }
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 StoryCAD is also compatible with widely used word processors like Microsoft Word and Google Docs. We generate reports you can import into these tools, allowing you to reference your outline but still take full advantage of each tool's strengths in your writing journey.}
\par\plain\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **Protecting Your Work:**}
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 To ensure the security of your manuscript, please use a dedicated word processing application for drafting and storing your novel. By doing so, you'll not only protect your work but also maximize StoryCAD's potential as an outliner. These mainstream programs are inherently more stable than our app,  which is new and has a smaller user base (and development staff.)}
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 **StoryCAD's Backup and Autosave Features:** To enhance your experience and safeguard your work, StoryCAD includes built-in backup options and an Autosave feature. Our two backup options periodically save your outlines and notes, reducing the risk of data loss. Meanwhile, the Autosave function works silently in the background, automatically saving your progress as you work. These features are part of our commitment to providing a reliable and user-friendly platform for your creative process.}\plain\f0\fs24\b0\i0
 \plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We understand the challenges and setbacks that come with losing valuable work. Our commitment is to minimize this risk and to help you integrate StoryCAD into your workflow in the most effective manner.}
\par\plain\f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Thank you for choosing StoryCAD as a companion in your writing endeavors. We look forward to reading or viewing the incredible stories you'll create.}}