{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::2>StoryBuilder for Pantsers<!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Not all who wander are lost.\u8217\'92 - J.R.R. Tolkien}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The section }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Writing With StoryBuilder}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  begins by asking the question \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91How much should I outline\u8217\'92, and discusses the difference in \u8216\'91plotters\u8217\'92 and \u8216\'91pantsers.\u8217\'92 It ends as follows:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li346\ri-720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The gap between these two perspectives,  and the answer to the original questions, is to outline as little as possible to get to an effective first draft. The trick is to develop an effective workflow, one that gets you to the writing as quickly and efficiently as possible.}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-1728\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Before, during, and after }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If you find yourself solidly in the pantsers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 camp, here are some techniques and tricks  to \u8216\'91outline as little as possible\u8217\'92. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You can use StoryBuilder before, during, and after you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ve started writing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92re ready to start writing, take a moment and brainstorm a list of scenes. You almost certainly have some in mind. At the start the list doesn\u8217\'92t  have to be exhaustive; it\u8217\'92s unlikely it will be. You can add a scene with\tab  nothing more a title and perhaps a line or two of Scene Sketch.  If you\u8217\'92ve jumped in and started writing, add the scenes you\u8217\'92ve written. You can always add detail on scenes, most of it on the Scene tab: the setting, who\u8217\'92s in the scene, and a  sketch of what happens. You can also use the Stock Scenes tool to find possible scenes to add to your collection.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-1728\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But- and this is important- figure out which problem(s) the scenes belong to, and outline the problems. Do this as early as possible. Using any story structuring approach with these problems will suggest what scenes you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92re missing and what you might want to write next. If a scene doesn\u8217\'92t fit into one of your story\u8217\'92s problems, it probably doesn\u8217\'92t belong in your story.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92re character oriented, outline the characters you\u8217\'92re visualizing. Details can help bring your characters into focus. Pay attention to their flaws, relationships, and traits- the attributes that lead to conflict. A story is a character with a problem; just as if you had started with scenes, you want to get to (and outline) that problem. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Your character\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s problem will often be a character arc- an  internal problem involving learning, growing or changing. Unfortunately, that\u8217\'92s usually not the story problem, except for Ascent/Descent plots such as }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Citizen Kane}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 The Treasure of the Sierra Madre}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The story problem\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s goal should be tangible, easy to understand and grasp- usually an external problem. Think of the internal problem as an obstacle that needs to be overcome in order to solve the external problem, by seeing the flaw that\u8217\'92s at the heart of it and changing a behavior or problem-solving approach which affects the story problem. If you start with a character flaw, find a problem that correcting it can solve. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}