{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Italic;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Bold;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset0\fprq1 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset0\fprq1 BookAntiqua;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Let\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s return to our original problem\u8217\'92s Story Question again:}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li706\fi14\ri892\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i1\cf1 What if a police detective uses a criminal's phone to gain time to effect a rescue, by calling the dealer at the critical moment?}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 We\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92re still working on our premise, and this is the time when defining Problem }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 story elements is  critical. What else is there? }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 We did throw in the phrase \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91effect a rescue\u8217\'92.  The \u8216\'91effect a rescue\u8217\'92 phrase raises the question: rescue from what? We could also ask where this phrase came from and what that phrase is even doing in the Story Question,  but it clearly seems to involve drama and more drama is always good. Your subconscious will often give you what you need, if you let it. Perhaps Lacas \u8216\'91gets the drop\u8217\'92 on one or both of our detectives somehow. We can add that as an additional story problem:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:455]=$PROJECT://2C36ADB2-13B2-4D74-B489-02F92CB2DE87.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Rather than \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91gets the drop on the detectives\u8217\'92, I used one detective, so that the other can affect the rescue. But }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 how}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  did Lacas gain the upper hand? }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 If our story idea and concept centered around and started with a character or characters, we would be looking for a story problem that fits those characters, but we started with a situation, and our characters aren\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t too well defined. The heart of a story is a character with a problem, however. Maybe it\u8217\'92s time to look at characterization better.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Let's shift gears for a moment and think about outer and inner problems.  The section }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://BDC6CEFF-C891-4545-B332-BF822F85B30C"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Defining Problems}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  discusses this topic in some detail.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 The outer or external problem we've just added has a physical goal\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  to catch Charlie Lacas and send him to jail.  External problems focus attention on physical actions and away from your characters.  To balance the story with a measure of character orientation, we'll add an inner problem for our protagonist to overcome.  Let's give Leonard a character flaw to deal with. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Click on the Lenard Kraskin node and then click on the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Outer Traits}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  tab. The Content Pane contains a button for a tool, }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Trait Builder}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 , and an empty list of traits. If you click on the Trait Builder tool you\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92ll see this:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:336;h:332]=$PROJECT://86F528E8-82A5-4C27-B680-F5DB6CA42E99.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Clicking on }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Behaviors}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  will give you a list of example behaviors: }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:511;h:593]=$PROJECT://56B40265-3BA3-4640-8C5D-0324D5A89FB2.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 And right there is what we\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92re looking for. Remember, we have no preconceptions about Leonard's character; he's a blank sheet of paper.  He can therefore easily be molded to suit the story, and giving him a character flaw by making him impulsive is a step in that direction.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Click on Impulsive and Copy Trait to add the trait:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:513]=$PROJECT://A810BDA7-44F5-4193-B7DF-FD4D0E1715F7.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Note that this is an outer rather than an inner trait. Inner traits are aspects of character stemming from psychological and social causes. External traits are habits and behaviors which reflect and illustrate the inner traits. It turns out that Impulsiveness is also a value under the Adventurousness  quality on the Inner Traits tab, so we can select that value as well:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:510]=$PROJECT://000CF46A-4E5A-4818-8D29-50F48B2D80E4.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 We should remember though, that  to affect the story\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s outcome, traits need to be demonstrated as external actions, under the 'show, don't tell' maxim. We need Leonard to exhibit Impulsiveness in an action that puts him in a situation where he needs rescue.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 With this change we can now rename our third problem (Lacas gets the drop on Kraskin) to something more precise:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:680;h:510]=$PROJECT://04E171B4-20CB-47AF-A2DA-46CA458D459A.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Both the Conflict Type and the Story Question address the flawed character trait.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-792\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 As a Person vs. Himself problem, the Protagonist and the Antagonist are both Leonard, but before fleshing these out, let\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s look at the Resolution. Here\u8217\'92s what I started with:}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li734\fi-43\ri-29\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Leonard Kraskin, trying to capture the drug dealer Charlie Lacas. Lacas has avoided being caught before because of his smart use of technology to communicate with his street dealers and customers. But Leonard and Tony have figured out how to trace the calls, and think they can know where Lacas is. Using their new tech, and in two cars, Leonard and Tony zero in on Lacas. Tony thinks it's too easy, but Leonard rushes to the location. It's a trap, however, and Lacas captures Leonard.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ri-1397\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 This isn\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t too satisfactorily; it has quite a few flaws. We haven\u8217\'92t spelled out exactly how Lacas uses his communications to his advantage, so we don\u8217\'92t know how our detectives are countering it. The Premise has the detectives in separate cars- are  they trying to triangulate a location?  Do they expect to send a message that Lacas will respond to? Who does he normally communicate with? Besides, he knows what the two detectives look like. Whatever they intercept wasn\u8217\'92t obtained with a warrant, and thus would be inadmissible. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Not knowing Lacas uses his communications suggests two weaknesses in our outlining: research and specificity. Here\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hoping it won\u8217\'92t result in an FBI van parked across the street, but some research in how drug deals operate and in the communications technology  they use resulted in a clearer understanding of the story.  StoryBuilder doesn\u8217\'92t yet have much in the way of research tools, but every story element node except folders has a \u8216\'91Notes\u8217\'92 tab. I\u8217\'92ve added my research notes on the Notes tab on the \u8216\'91How will Leonard and Tony get past Charlie's tech?\u8217\'92 Problem.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Let\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s start with the \u8216\'91Who does he normally communicate with\u8217\'92 question. The tool to fix this is the same one that gave us our Concept: \u8216\'91What if?\u8217\'92 }
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 What }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Pick story problems}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ri-734\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 The story is beginning to take on substance; we can start to visualize some scenes.  In fact, if a plot point occurs to you,  there's no reason not to add it, now or at any time.  Stories are conceived through a process of accumulation, and one of StoryBuilder's strong points is that you can collect whatever pieces fit as you find them.  But before we start plotting let's continue with the problems. }
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\ri-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Character traits are also a means of achieving conflict.  Many stories don't have enough built-in conflict, which leads to contrived plots.  But conflict isn't necessarily limited to the interplay of protagonist and antagonist.  We can create conflict by giving Tony a trait which clashes with Leonard's.  The opposite of impulsiveness isn't necessarily caution, though.  Going back to the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Inner Traits}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  tab on Tony's record, we select}{\f4\fs20\b0\i0  Thoughtful}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  from the}{\f5\fs22\b0\i0  Shrewdness}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  trait:}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f1\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f6\fs24\b0\i0 4}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 It's tempting to fill up the screen, by selecting other inner traits at this time, but it's better for the story to focus on just one or two traits in a character.  }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \pagebb\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 We can clarify the problems further.  The }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Resolution}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  tab on the }{\f3\fs24\b1\i0 Problem}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  form identifies the outcome of a problem. The outcome of the story's major outer or external problem is the most important; the story's over when this problem is resolved.  In this case, though, we might solve both problems at once, in a confrontational scene. Let's assume that we want a happy ending, and think about the inner problem's outcome:}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch \f1\fs20\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl-1\slmult0\qj\ltrch\loch {\f6\fs24\b0\i0 5}
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Does this work?  The story's over when Lacas is captured, and Leonard's inner problem, his impulsiveness, which might have gotten him killed, ends in his rescue.  The question is whether he learns and grows from the experience.  In an action-oriented story, this is less important, so we'll leave it alone for now.  However, it's worth coming back to; our story's theme will probably have to do with this character flaw (for example, 'Imprudence leads to danger'.)}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f7\fs24\b0\i0  You can find out more about Problems}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://BDC6CEFF-C891-4545-B332-BF822F85B30C"}{\fldrslt\f7\fs24\b0\i0  here}}{\f7\fs24\b0\i0 . }
\par\pard\plain \ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f4\fs24\b0\i0}