{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SitkaText;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BookAntiqua-Italic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b0\i0 Problem Form}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 The short definition for a story is }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 trouble}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 .  Like people, stories are at their best when things are at their worst. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 You create a problem by devising a goal for  one of your story's characters, the Protagonist, and a motive which propels him or her to strive for the goal. You next define conflict: an opponent , the Antagonist,  who tries to  prevent the protagonist from reaching his or her goal.  The conflict leaves the outcome uncertain, which keeps the reader turning pages to find out what happens.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 A problem resolves in one of two ways: successfully or not. Both have their place in fiction. If the main story problem has a good outcome,  the story has a happy ending; if it\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s a bad outcome, the story\u8217\'92s a tragedy. Other problems\u8217\'92 bad outcomes represent setbacks for the protagonist, whereas good outcomes  }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The protagonist may not initially be aware of his need (this is common in stories of discovery).  The antagonist may not even be human, but a force or process or situation.  But all problems have the elements of goal, motivation, and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 conflict.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 A story can  and usually will have multiple problems, but only one of them is the main story problem. When that problem is resolved, the story is over.\line }}