{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri-Italic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8226\'95;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs26\b0\i0\fi-480\li960\lin960}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8226\'95;}{\levelnumbers;}\f1\fs26\b0\i0\fi-480\li960\lin960}{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Where to put this?}
\par\plain \f1\fs26\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 In 1996, Debra Dixon published a book,\~}{\f2\fs26\b0\i1 Goal, Motivation, & Conflict: The Building Blocks of Good Fiction\~}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 (Gryphon Books, 1996). A decade and half later, it\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s rare to attend a writer\u8217\'92s conference which doesn\u8217\'92t have a presentation or workshop or at least some mention of GMC. When you consider that authorities on writing tend to date rather back further, such as Aristotle\u8217\'92s\~}{\f2\fs26\b0\i1 Poetics (}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 335 BC), \~or Gustav Freytag\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s\~}{\f2\fs26\b0\i1 Die Technic des Dramas}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \~ (1863), that\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s quite an accomplishment.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 The reason for this is simple enough; Dixon has identified relationships between elements of a plotted story which were previously not given sufficient \~attention. They are:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 G = Goal. (What is it the character wants to achieve? Or what is the character wants to avoid?)}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 M = Motivation. (Why does the character want this goal?)}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sa240\ltrch\loch \ls1\ilvl0{\listtext	\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 C = Conflict. (What stands in the character\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s way? Why can\u8217\'92t the character have the goal?)}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 These are all parts of each problem in your story (see\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://storybuilder.terrywcox.com/2014/01/03/plot-defined/"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs26\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Plot Defined}}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 ,\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://storybuilder.terrywcox.com/2013/10/14/the-problem-is/"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs26\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 The Problem Is\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85,}}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \~and\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://storybuilder.terrywcox.com/2014/01/03/turtles-all-the-way-down/"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs26\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Turtles, All The Way Down}}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 .)}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Each element can also be recognized by other names, in the literature of writing craft:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb240\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext	\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Goal \endash  desire, want, need, ambition, purpose}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext	\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Motivation- drive, backstory, impetus, incentive}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sa240\ltrch\loch \ls2\ilvl0{\listtext	\f1\fs26\b0\i0 \uc0\u8226 	}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Conflict \endash  trouble, tension, friction, villain, roadblock}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 What makes GMC interesting to me is that it deals with the intersection of character and plot. The literature of the craft of writing often discusses the need for strong characters, and of the need for good plots. How they tie together is no longer a mystery, thanks to Ms. Dixon.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 If a problem your protagonist faces\~don\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t have a strong enough goal- if he doesn\u8217\'92t want it badly enough- your reader won\u8217\'92t care if he succeeds enough.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Dixon carefully separates external and internal goals. Each problem must have both. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 See\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://storybuilder.terrywcox.com/2014/01/03/character-arc/"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs26\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Character Arc}}{\f1\fs26\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 If the goal is \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8216\'91What\u8221\'94, motivation is the \u8220\'93Why\u8221\'94. Motivation is key to providing verisimilitude, the semblance of reality fiction must have in order to be believable. If your character doesn\u8217\'92t care enough to seek his goal, your reader won\u8217\'92t believe the travails you put him through as he tries to achieve it.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 Conflict is what makes a problem a problem. If there is no obstacle that will keep your character from attaining her goal, there\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s no tension, and your reader won\u8217\'92t wonder What Happens Next?-\~ the question that propels him to read on.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 What makes GMC unique in its discussion of Conflict is that Dixon not only creates GMC charts for her protagonist, but for the antagonist as well. This is fearful symmetry.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs26\b0\i0 I can\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t say enough about this book. Buy it and read it. Then re-read it. Then use it.}}