{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Protecting Your Work<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Experienced computer users never underestimate the importance of a backup.  A power failure or computer crash, or a slip of the hand, can cost you the changes you've made since you last backed up your work.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 The easiest and best backup is to save your work frequently at places where you're satisfied with your progress\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  milestones such as adding a plot point for an important scene, describing the physical appearance of a character, or figuring out how you plan to resolve a story problem. When you modify your outline, StoryBuilder will display a red pencil on the status bar to indicate that  it\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s in an \u8216\'91unsaved\u8217\'92 state. Use the File | Save option to cause the outline to be re-written to disk.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Backups are written to the folder specified in the \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91Backup directory\u8217\'92 selection in Preferences. Use  the browse button next to the specified folder to select (or create) the folder you wish to keep your story outline backups in. We recommend creating a folder just for this purpose.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Backups are suffixed with a date timestamp, for example:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \tab }
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \tab   My Story as of 11 01 2022 17 12 16.stbx}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 To revert to a backup, simply click on the .stbx file of your choice and use File | Save As to save it back where you want it. If you specify the same parent folder as your working outline, it\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92ll overlay it.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 See }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivlnk://06A3F580-42AA-48DF-8032-ED0A26E5C6A1"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Preferences}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  in this manual for further information.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0}