{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 BaskOldFace;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1600\f0\fs24\cf0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sb260\sl262\slmult1\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 <$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_H::1>Stock Scenes<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>}
\par\pard\plain \tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{$SCRImageLink[w:475;h:628]=$PROJECT://40F7D2D9-D8F6-457D-A5B2-1388F3867D09.png\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx-720\ri0\sl240\slmult0\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 This tool, invoked from the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Plotting Aids}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  sub-menu of the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Tools}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  menu, provides a list of several categories of stock scenes. These are scenic situations which recur frequently in fiction. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 While your plot and story should be as distinct and original as you can make it, stock scenes can be found throughout literature, and are a valuable part of any writer's tool kit.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 Selecting one of the categories will result in the display of a form listing some stock scenes in that category.  Selecting one or more of these scenes, and clicking on the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Copy}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  control, will cause a scene to be added to the plot, immediately after the current scene, with the stock scene's title as the scene summary.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Stock Scenes }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 can be tailored to display any sub-menus of stock scenes you wish.  You can modify the contents of the exiting sub-menus, or add or replace sub-menus.  See "Customizing StoryCAD" for more details.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0}